.TH TSUPQ 1 tsupq-VERSION

.SH NAME
tsupq \- Tiny supervisor controller program.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tsupq
.RB [ OPTION... ]
.B check

.PP
.B tsupq
.RB [ OPTION... ]
.B kill
.I ID
.RI [ SIGNAL ]

.PP
.B tsupq
.RB [ OPTION... ]
.B list
.RI [ ID ]

.PP
.B tsupq
.RB [ OPTION... ]
.B shutdown

.PP
.B tsupq
.RB [ OPTION... ]
.B spawn
.I ID COMMAND
.RI [ ARG... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR tsupq " is a program to control the tiny supervisor daemon " tsupd .
tsupq can be used to send the following queries to the daemon:

.TP
.RI "\fBspawn " "ID COMMAND " [ ARG... ]
Start a new process
.IR COMMAND " with arguments " ARG... " and assign it label " ID .
The created process will be supervised by tsupd and can be monitored and
controlled by the label.

.TP
.IR "\fBlist " [ ID ]
List processes that are supervised by tsupd and have label matching
.I ID
.RB "(see " NOTES " on label matching below)."
If
.I ID
is omitted that it will list all processes that are" supervised by tsupd.

.TP
.RI "\fBkill " "ID " [ SIGNAL ]
.RI "Send a " SIGNAL " to the process(-s) with label matching " ID
.RB "(see " NOTES " on label matching below)."
.RI "If " SIGNAL " is omitted then " SIGTERM " will be sent."

.TP
.B check
Check if tsupd daemon is running and responding. tsupq will exit with 0 exit
code if daemon is running and nonzero exit code otherwise.

.TP
.B shutdown
Request tsupd to shut down. tsupd will kill all supervised processes and exit.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help ,
show usage and exit.
.TP
.B \-q
decrease verbosity.
.TP
.B \-v
increase verbosity.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
print version and exit.

.SH NOTES
.RB "Both " kill " and " list " commands use pattern matching on " ID .
The user supplied
.B ID
is treated as a
.BR glob (7)
and matched against process labels with
.BR fnmatch (3).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tsupd (1)
\- tiny supervisor daemon.

